Since a single TEC can only achieve around $70\degree C$ of temperature difference, its obvious to use several TECs attached together, in order to improve the thermal pumping power.

Refer [[Multi-Stage TEC Modeling]] for theoretical relations and other physics based information.

A two stage thermoelectric TEC can be considered as a two combined single stage TEC’s connected thermally in series. Each stage may have same number or different number of thermoelectric elements

### Choosing no. of stages
Source: [thermoelectric-cooling-systems-design-guide-br](<file:///E:\Semester 7\ME4311 - MicroNano Electro Mechanical Systems and Nanotechnology\Project\Papers\gpt\thermoelectric-cooling-systems-design-guide-br.pdf>)

Typically this is chosen based on the required $\Delta T$ for the application. The standard temp. difference that can be gained through a a multistage TEC can be shown as follows.

| No. of Stages | $\approx\Delta T (\degree C)$ |
| :------------ | :---------------------------- |
| 1             | 64                            |
| 2             | 84                            |
| 3             | 95                            |
| 4+            | 110-125                       |

A single stage can pump around 60-70 $\degree C$ and behavior above 2 or more stages is highly **non-linear**. This design guide is for only less than 2 stages and it contains instructions to how to calculate $\Delta T / \Delta T_{max}$ and use it to find a suitable TEC using graph (drawing lines, taking intersections), and the selecting most suitable out of their product range. _Not suitable for my application_.

## Leg Dimensions

The paper [Parameter analysis and optimal design for two-stage thermoelectric cooler](<file:///E:\Semester 7\ME4311 - MicroNano Electro Mechanical Systems and Nanotechnology\Project\Papers\Parameter analysis and optimal design for two-stage thermoelectric cooler.pdf>) suggests that the leg dimensions, mostly length / height changes how much temperature difference is shared between two TEC stages. Therefore you can use these dimensions to change $T_m$ junction temperature between the TEC modules.

In the same papers, it was found out that the best leg area ratio between p and n legs depends on the material properties, not geometric properties or the current.

`multi stage TEC are almost always pyramid shaped becasuse the next stage needs to pump more heat than the previous stage because it has to carry out the extra heat generated by the previous TEC module.`